.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-only
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 Adam Girardo <adamjohngirardo@gmail.com>

.TH TUMBLEWEED-UPDATER 1 "2026-05-07" "0.1.0" "Tumbleweed Updater"
.SH NAME
tumbleweed-updater \- KDE-native system update orchestrator for openSUSE Tumbleweed
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tumbleweed-updater
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tumbleweed-updater
is a KDE Plasma graphical interface for keeping an openSUSE Tumbleweed
system up to date using the recommended
.BR "zypper dup" (8)
workflow.
.PP
The application runs in the system tray and provides:
.TP
\(bu
One-click system updates with live streaming progress output
.TP
\(bu
System tray integration with update status badge (Wayland-compatible)
.TP
\(bu
Automatic background update checks via systemd user timer
.TP
\(bu
Snapper pre/post snapshot integration for safe rollback
.TP
\(bu
Optional Flatpak update support
.TP
\(bu
Vendor change detection and configurable vendor policy
.TP
\(bu
Persistent update history log with rollback actions
.TP
\(bu
KDE-native settings via KConfig
.PP
.B tumbleweed-updater
is not a package manager. It does not support package search,
installation, or removal. Its sole purpose is keeping a Tumbleweed
system current safely and reliably.
.PP
Privilege escalation for update operations is handled via
.BR pkexec (1)
\(em the GUI never runs as root.
.SH OPTIONS
.B tumbleweed-updater
takes no command-line options. All configuration is managed
through the in-application Settings page.
.SH BACKGROUND CHECKS
Automatic background update checks can be enabled via the Settings
page. When enabled, a systemd user timer runs
.BR twu-ctl-notify (1)
on a configurable interval to check for updates and send desktop
notifications even when the GUI is not running.
.PP
To manage the timer manually:
.PP
.nf
systemctl --user status tumbleweed-updater-check.timer
systemctl --user enable --now tumbleweed-updater-check.timer
systemctl --user disable --now tumbleweed-updater-check.timer
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/TumbleweedUpdaterrc
User configuration file in KConfig INI format.
Controls vendor policy, Snapper integration, Flatpak updates,
auto-check interval, and systemd timer preferences.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/TumbleweedUpdater/history.log
Update history log in JSONL format (one JSON object per line).
Records all status checks and apply operations.
.TP
.I ~/.config/systemd/user/tumbleweed-updater-check.timer.d/interval.conf
Drop-in override for the systemd timer interval.
Written automatically when the check interval is changed in Settings.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR twu-ctl (1),
.BR twu-ctl-notify (1),
.BR zypper (8),
.BR snapper (8),
.BR pkexec (1),
.BR systemctl (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Adam Girardo
.SH LICENSE
GPL-2.0-only
