.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-only
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 Adam Girardo <adamjohngirardo@gmail.com>

.TH TWU-CTL 1 "2026-05-07" "0.1.0" "Tumbleweed Updater"
.SH NAME
twu-ctl \- Tumbleweed Updater controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B twu-ctl
.I command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B twu-ctl
is the unprivileged controller component of Tumbleweed Updater.
It checks for and applies system updates on openSUSE Tumbleweed,
returning structured JSON output for consumption by the GUI frontend.
.PP
The
.B apply
command must be invoked via
.BR pkexec (1)
to obtain the necessary root privileges.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B status
Check for available updates using
.BR zypper (8)
and return a JSON object describing the current update state,
including package count, vendor changes, Flatpak updates,
firmware updates (via
.BR fwupdmgr (1)),
and whether a reboot will be required.
.TP
.B apply
Apply pending system updates using
.BR "zypper dup" (8).
Must be run as root via pkexec.
Streams progress output followed by a final JSON result object.
Optionally creates Snapper pre/post snapshots, updates Flatpak apps,
and applies firmware updates via
.BR fwupdmgr (1).
A reboot is always recommended when firmware updates were applied.
.TP
.B refresh
Refresh repository metadata using
.BR "zypper ref" (8).
Must be run as root via pkexec.
.TP
.B enable-unattended
Install a polkit rule granting the invoking user passwordless authorization
for the
.B refresh
and
.B apply
actions only, scoped to that user's local, active session.
Must be run as root via pkexec, which itself requires interactive
authentication once.
Never affects the
.B rollback
action, which always requires interactive authentication.
.TP
.B disable-unattended
Remove the polkit rule installed by
.BR enable-unattended .
Must be run as root via pkexec.
.TP
.BI "import-repo-key " URL
Import a repository's GPG signing key, fetched from
.IR URL ,
into the RPM keyring via
.BR "rpm --import" (8),
so a subsequent
.B apply
verifies against it.
.I URL
must be a plain
.B https://
URL or the command refuses to run.
Must be run as root via pkexec.
Used by the GUI's "Import Key & Retry" action after a repository
signature-verification failure.
.TP
.BI "apply-skip-repo " ALIAS
Like
.BR apply ,
but first disables the repository named
.I ALIAS
via
.BR "zypper mr -d" (8),
and always re-enables it again afterward, regardless of outcome.
Must be run as root via pkexec.
Used by the GUI's "Skip Repo & Update" action when a repository's metadata
can't be verified and no correct signing key is available to import (for
example, a temporary upstream signing problem) -- disabling it is the only
way to let
.B "zypper dup"
proceed, since it refuses to run if any enabled repository fails to
refresh.
.SH OUTPUT
All commands output a JSON object to stdout.
Progress output during
.B apply
is streamed as plain text lines,
with the final JSON result on the last line.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/TumbleweedUpdaterrc
User configuration file in KConfig INI format.
Controls vendor policy, Snapper integration, Flatpak updates,
fwupd firmware updates, auto-check interval, and whether zypper is run
with
.B --gpg-auto-import-keys
(the
.B [Zypper]
.B AutoImportKeys
key).
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/TumbleweedUpdater/history.log
Update history log in JSONL format (one JSON object per line).
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/TumbleweedUpdater/last-check-state.json
Timestamp and result of the most recent successful
.B status
check, shared with
.BR twu-ctl-notify (1)
so the GUI can display an accurate "last checked" time regardless of
whether the check was run interactively or by the background systemd timer.
.TP
.I /etc/polkit-1/rules.d/90-tumbleweedupdater-unattended-<user>.rules
Passwordless authorization rule installed by
.BR enable-unattended ,
removed by
.BR disable-unattended .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tumbleweed-updater (1),
.BR twu-ctl-notify (1),
.BR zypper (8),
.BR snapper (8),
.BR fwupdmgr (1),
.BR pkexec (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Adam Girardo
.SH LICENSE
GPL-2.0-only
